Define HTTP exception events (#3414)
open-telemetry/semantic-conventions: docs/http/http-exceptions.md

<!--- Hugo front matter used to generate the website version of this page:
linkTitle: Exceptions
--->

# Semantic conventions for HTTP exceptions

**Status**: [Development][DocumentStatus]

This document defines semantic conventions for recording exceptions on HTTP operations.

<!-- toc -->

- [HTTP client request exception](#http-client-request-exception)
- [HTTP server request exception](#http-server-request-exception)

<!-- tocstop -->

## HTTP client request exception

<!-- semconv event.http.client.request.exception -->
<!-- NOTE: THIS TEXT IS AUTOGENERATED. DO NOT EDIT BY HAND. -->
<!-- see templates/registry/markdown/snippet.md.j2 -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

**Status:** ![Development](https://img.shields.io/badge/-development-blue)

The event name MUST be `http.client.request.exception`.

This event represents an exception that occurred during an HTTP client request, such as network failures, timeouts, or other errors that prevent the request from completing successfully.

This event SHOULD be recorded when an exception occurs during HTTP client operations.

> Instrumentations SHOULD set the severity to ERROR (severity number 17) when recording this event.

Author: ```suggestion
Instrumentations SHOULD set the severity to WARN (severity number 13?) when recording this event.
```
